3rd Time Period - Egypt and the Exodus

Exodus - 400 years went by after Genesis. 1 page and 400 years of being down in Egypt. The current Pharaoh doesn't respect the relation Joseph had 400 years ago with Egypt.
	The Israelites are in bondage. They cry out to God. God raises out a deliverer by the name of Mosses. That's where we pick up in Exodus.

Problems that people encounter when people read Exodus:
	Now we are introduced to new major things.
	Mosheh (Hebrew of Mosses - means "to draw out")
	How God tries to break them out of Egypt. They were eating like Egyptians, they were worshiping like Egyptians, they even dress like Egyptians.
	They were addicted to idolatory and so God had to do something amazing to draw them out and turn them to Himself.

We read the plagues as one bad thing upon the next and it seems like God is simply punishing the Egyptians. The 10th plague is really sensitive.
The serious plagues are for releasing the Israelites; for their freedom. It realy is a painful freedom.

For 3 months, they travel down to mount Sinah. I am even going to provide food for you.
	God says: I have brought you out here to show you that man does not live by bread alone but by every word that proceeds out of my mouth.
	They are going to be at mount Sinai for 1 year. This is where everything changes. If you don't get it, you don't understand most of the old testament.
	God is going to make a covenant with Israel. It goes south very quickly.

Important things to get during this period:
	1) There's going to be a liaising of the nation. One tribe (Levites) are going to rise up as priests. Moses and Aaron are Levites.
		This takes place in Exodus 32. That's where Levidicus (the holiness code) belongs because that is for the people.
	2) The Tabernacle comes as a result of Mosses seeing a heavenly vision of what it looks like to worship. We see this also on John's Revelations.
	3) Also, God gives the 10 commandments. The law is not meant to put them down or to control their lives. The law is to get you to focus on your relationship with the Lord.

What should people be paying attention to on the non-narrative book Levidicus?
	It's a very critical book. In Jesus's time, all the children started their biblical studies with Levidicus. Reason - It talks about holiness. To be holy(Kadosh in Hebrew).
	God brought Israel out of Egypt for a purpose. God says 6 times: "Be holy, as I am holy".
	And He says: You need to discern b/w the good and the bad, that which is clean and that which is unclean.
	Do not obey the laws of the place you came from nor the place you are going, but obey my word.
	We see the foundation of discipleship. God is discipling a nation who has came out of bondage.
	God says: If you want to be my people, and you want to truly live free, you have to imitate me.

	Maybe you won't understand everything in Levidicus, but listen carefully for how God is forming a nation.
	Imitation is the foundation of discipleship. That will carry on to the new Testament as well.