Exodus 21, Leviticus 14, Psalm 75

Exo 21 - God allowed Slavery?
	We have to realise that God revealing Himself, He is not revealing Himself to a people who know who He is, not to a people who has incredible familiarity with Him.
		He is not revealing Himself to a people who are, as we would say now, civilised.
		He is revealing Himself to a people who are familiar with kind of like a "Wild West" justice. He is revealing Himself to a people who have a sense of what's right and what's
		wrong but don't necessarily know how to pursue what's right and what's wrong in a way that is absolutely just and absolutely fair.
	In the ancient Egypt and the ancient Meditteranian, as well as in the Greco-Roman world, they had gods and goddesses who weren't good or just or fair.
		What they had is power. Power is what rules. What they had is usefullness. Utility is what rules.
		Here's God who is teaching these people a "new way to be" and also His identity.
			His identity is: I am a God of justice. I am a God who does hear the cry of the poor. Your actions matter to me. Your actions cannot be rooted merely in power or usefullness or vengeance.
				Your actions must be rooted in justice.
		So, here's God beginning to give these commandments of behaviour. Here's how you live in the society and it's based off of justice first.
	God is speaking to a community that does not know Him and a community that does not necessarily know that there are restrictions on what you can do to other people.
	Here's the kind of slave labour that those Israelites themselves suffered under for 400 years under the Egyptians. So slavery, in that context, is completely normal.
		It's one of the ways in which people cared for each other. Here's someone who is like: I am completely homeless, jobless, have no prospects, have nothing to sell, have nothing to offer.
			All I can offer is myself, my services.
		This is a kind of slavery that said: I might take it on myself with no other options to place myself in what we might call indentured servitude to someone who can care for me.
		It's not ideal. That's the whole point. God has to start somewhere.
	These people does not know God in His justice. They do not remember that in the beginning, God made them male and female in His image and likeness.
	They have to be taught what justice is, what fairness is, how to treat others with dignity. This is like Lesson 1.
	He will eventually raise them to the level of treating all people with dignity as all humans are made in the image and likeness of God.
	He first tries to raise them to the level of "eye for an eye" from the level of "life for an eye".