Translation used - Revised Standard Version 2nd Catholic Edition (RSVCE)
Based on - The Great Adventure Bible Timeline (by Jeff Cavins)

Early World Period
Genesis 1-2, Psalm 19
Trajectory of the entire Bible is based on the uniqueness of Genesis 1&2
  In any of the ancient mid-east genesis stories, the creation is born out of violence, of sexual domination, or of sexual act.
  Other genesis stories tells that God created man to be slaves, for sport, or to toy with them. Work is beneath them.
  In Bible, the word "Bara"(creation out of nothing) is found in no other genesis
stories.
  The Catechism says: God, infinitely perfect and blessed in Himself, in a plan of
sheer goodness, freely created man to make him share in His own blessed life.
  In no other world view other than the Judeo-Christian world view, is man created
in the image and likeness of God. This is where the idea that human beings have dignity comes from.

Gen 2:15 - He made man for at-least for 3 purposes: for labor, for leisure and for love.
We see God working. He tells man to go to work. i.e. God tells: part of what makes you like me is that you can labor like me.
Genesis 1 is macro-event(poetic). Genesis 2 is the micro-event(zoomed in version).They are both same accounts of different events.
Day 1 - Separation b/w Light, Darkness light/darkness)
Day 2 - Separation b/w Water and Sky water)
Day 3 - Separation b/w Water and Land
Day 4 - Sun, Moon, Stars (what rules
Day 5 - Things in Sea, Sky (what rules
Day 6 - Human (what rules land)

Genesis 2 - This account of the state of the world at the beginning, which introduces the story of the first sin, comes from a different and earlier source and is composed in a very different style.
There is nothing in these chapters that commits us to any particular scientific view of the origins of the world or man, or that would exclude the evolution hypothesis.
Gen 2:20 - Just because the word helper (Ezer Kenegdo - Hebrew) is used, it doesn't mean woman is lower (just for help) than man. It means something more profound.
  In Old testament, Ezer is used 21 times, 19 out of which is used to reference God.
  When God created Eve, God didn't take her from his head to lord her over him nor from his foot to be walked upon by him. He took her from his side to walk with him, from beneath his arm to be guarded by him, and from near his heart to be loved by him.
Gen 2:23 - Man="ish"; Woman="ishshah" (Hebrew)
When God made this world, he made it absolutely good.
