Genesis 3-4, Psalm 104

Psalm 104 is a magnificient hymn of creation.
Genesis 3: Temptation of Eve
	The term used to describe satan is the term which, in other parts of the Bible means Leviathan(sea monster/dragon) - fearsome/powerful creature.
	He doesn't overtly(openly) challenge God's existence or God's authority to declare off-limits but he does challenge God's trustworthiness.
		Will you belong to Him or take your life in your own hands?

God doesn't simply want us to believe in Him. The point is to belong to Him.
Even if God reveals Himself, His power, His beauty, we would still have to go through the subsequent test which Eve and Adam went through, which was not to believe but to belong to Him.

First challenge of serpent - God doesn't love you. Else, He would have allowed you to eat from that tree.

God comes along and calls out.
	The next line: Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat?
	How we hear it shows our view of God - as God's anger? wrath? OR True Heart of the Father? The Heartbreak? Great plans ruined?

Gen 3:15 - He shall bruise your head. i.e. the seed of the woman(mankind descended from Eve), will eventually gain the victory over the powers of evil.

Only serpent gets cursed. Humans get an different path(painful remedies; because they failed to choose Love - Love always involves sacrifice).
	For Eve to love - bring forth life in pain and learn that Love involves sacrifice.
	For Adam - to care for his wife and care for his family, he would have to work among thrones and thistles.

How do we know that this is not God's wrath?
	After he drives Adam and Eve from Eden, he puts the Cherubium to guard the tree of life.
	If they eat of the tree of life, they will never die. i.e. God doesn't want them to live in this brokenness forever.
	Maybe their destiny was to live forever in wholeness and holiness. But since they are broken, God says that you will end up dying so that you can be raised up.
	How do we know that God is still caring?
		Gen 3:21 - Lord made for Adam and Eve garments of skins, and clothed them.
		God continues to provide.
		"Garments of skins" - something had to die
		Connection b/w Love and sacrifice.

Eve - The name in Hebrew(Chavah/Havah) resembles the word for living (chavah=to breathe ; chayah = to live/to give life).

Genesis 4: Things escalate. Humanity goes from eating a fruit to fratricide(killing own brother)

Why God accepted only Abel's offering? We don't know.
	One of the thoughts: The nature of Abel's offering was that he bbrought of the firstlings of his flock.
	Nature of Cain's offering was that he just gave God whatever. (not necessarily first fruits).
	Do I give God the best or whatever is left? One offering gives glory to God the other will be in some ways meaningless.
	Fix time for prayer. It doesn't get moved.

God says: If you do well, you will be accepted. If you don't, sin is lurking. But you must master it.
Even when we are angry, even when we are tempted, we don't have to sin.

Gen 4:16 - Cain dwelt in the land of Nod(Hebrew: to wander)
Gen 4:26 - Seth is the ancestor of Noah.

Love involves sacrifice. Each day, I have to sacrifice my time for God. Not whatever is left, but the best part.