Genesis 12-50

We meet Abraham, Sarai, Issac, Jacob, Joseph...
	We meet the Patriarchs: The beginning of the people of Israel.

--Jeff Cavins
Changes from Hebrew poetry mode.
We see how God works with mankind.
	Abraham was in modern day Iraq.

Gen 11 - So and so begot so and so...
	Hebrew tool called "Toledoth". It is a literary tool that takes you from the wide angle down to narrow.
	Writer is forcing you to go from all of mankind to one guy.

God makes 3 key promises to Abraham - Land, Royal Dynasty, Worldwide blessing

Problem - Abraham doesn't have any kids.
Gen 15 - Abraham struggles with God.
	God makes a covenant. Result - Issac (Then Esau and Jacob(from whom the 12 tribes of Israel comes))

How to deal with the weaknesses of people in Bible?
	Look into the Bible as a mirror. (I didn't except that in your life either)
	It paints a picture of the brokenness of humanity and speaks of the great patience and the loving kindness that God demonstrates in bringing us all back together into his family
	which is going to culminate in Jesus.
	Any time you read about sin, it surely is alarming. But it really does echo where mankind is at today and also the Love of God and the great lengths he goes to save us.
	This is not a book of tales. This is real life.

We see in this period - God's faithfulness, our brokenness
Hebrew writers don't tell you the results, they show you - So you have to read carefully and start seeing patterns.

How the Church reads scripture.
	There are 3 different levels we need to pay attention to:
	1.	Read the whole Genesis knowing that Christ fulfils all of this (evident from time to time).
	2.	Read it in light of "What does this seem to me? Do I see myself in this story?"
	3.	How does this find fulfilment eventually in Heaven?

"Lord who can grasp all the wealth of just one of your words? What we understand is much less than we leave behind; like thirsty people who drink from a fountain.
	For your word, Lord, has many shades of meaning just as those who study it have many different points of view.
	The Lord has colored his word with many hues so that each person who studies it can see in it what he loves.
	He has hidden many treasures in his word so that each of us is enriched as we meditate on it.
	The thirsty man rejoices when he drinks and he is not downcast because he cannot empty the fountain.
	Rather let the fountain quench your thirst than have your thirst quench the fountain.
	Because if your thirst is quenched and the fountain is not exhausted, you can drink from it again whenever you are thirsty.
	But if when your thirst is quenched and the fountain is also dried up, your victory will bode evil for you.
	So be grateful for what you have received and don't grumble about the abundance left behind. What you have received and what you have reached is your share.
	What remains is your heritage. What at one time you were unable to receive because of your weakness, you will be able to receive at other times if you persevere.
	Do not have the presumption to try to take in one draft what cannot be taken in one draft and do not abandon out of laziness what can only be taken little by little."
				- St.Ephraim the Syrian (373 AD)

Take in what I can and not be overly bothered about what I can't.

We are following the seedline all the way from Eve to Jesus.
The great covenant that God makes with Abraham is going to be bedrock for the rest of the entire Bible.
	We see when do they get Land, when there is a royal kingdom established, when is worldwide blessing available?

The longest portion of Genesis goes to Joseph. Doesn't mean he is the most important.

Keep in mind:
	Faith - Idea of faith is not simply believism.
		2 parts: Mental Acknowledgement(assent), A personal entrusting of yourself to God