Genesis 33-34, Job 23-24, Proverbs 3:13-18

Job continues to note that there are good people that die and bad people who seem to be rewarded while logic dictates the opposite. Job is trying to make sense of this.
	We see Jacob wrestle with the Lord in Gen 32. This is what Job too does.
	In the midst of our suffering, our pain, we continue to wrestle with the Lord saying that:
		It would seem to me that if you were close, if you are love, if you cared, deliver me from this pain.
	Yet, we still find ourselves in the midst of pain. We find ourselves in the midst of this broken world.

Gen 32 - Jacob's name was changed to Israel. This marked something unique. Something we have not seen yet. We have seen plenty of brokenness. Gen 33 reveals reconciliation.
Jacob gives a lot of gifts to Esau and he points out that Jacob's life had been a life of theft, scheming and deceit.
But it is the love of God that blesses Jacob and Jacob is different moving forward from this.

We see in Gen 34, after Shechem rapes Dinah. Here, Jacob wants to deal fairly and do not want to decieve them. But, Dinah's brothers take vengeance.
	Here, the scripture says that what happened to Dinah was evil (it ought not to be done). That rarely happens when describing the actions of fathers of Israel.
	It was preceeded by something: We see Jacob bringing a gift to Esau. The Hebrew term for gift used there is literally the word "blessing".
	Jacob is returning the blessing to Esau, the blessing that he decieved their father out of.
	The portion of the blessing that relates to material prosperity is now shared with Esau as an act of restoration.
	For the 1st time in the story, there is hope that reconciliation and forgiveness can win the day.

This is how life happens often: There is unprecedented blessing and the next day, there is a brokenness.
	We keep moving forward.
	We need to first realise that we need reconciliation.

We don't stop when we encounter pain. We don't stop when we encounter things we don't understand.
We keep on moving forward because we know that God does write straight. But he writes straight with crooked lines.

God's will is going to triumph but sometimes it seems like it has to triumph in spite of our brokenness; not because of any good that we bring to the story.
Even our broken story can be part of His story.