Genesis 29-30, Job 19-20, Proverbs 3:5-8

Job has 3 friends who assumes that he has done something wrong.
	Job says: It seems like God is my enemy. I have served Him. Job is honest.

Jacob - The family from which Jesus came had so much brokenness.
	Laban's like: Yeah you can have all those sheep and then he takes them away.
	Then Jacob's like: Well, in that case I'm gonna make sure that the ones I wanted are the ones I get.

Even worse is the deception that happened from Laan with his two daughters, Leah and Rachel.
	Rachel had Jacob's heart.

The Scripture sometimes shows us instead of tells us some things:
	Laban says to Jacob: It is not right in our land to give the younger what belongs to the older.
	Just a couple of chapters back, we see that the younger Jacob, took what belonged to the older, Isah.

A painful thing happens - Rachel is loved by her husband. Leah is tolerated by Jacob.
	This is also what so many people envision God does with them; that He simply tolerates them as opposed to the fact that God truly loves them.

After each conception, Leah thought that her husband would love her.
	After her 1st conception, she said: My husband will love me.
	After her 2nd conception, she said: Because the Lord has heard that I am hated, he has given me this son. (Hope my husband won't hate me anymore)
	After her 3rd conception, she said: This time, my husband will be joined to me
	At one point, after her 4th conception, she gives up trying to make her huusband love her and says that she will praise God.

Israel - Jacob an descendants
	Leah (1st Wife) - Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah
	Bilhah (Rachel's handmaid) - Dan, Naph'tali
	Zilpah (Leah's handmaid) - Gad, Asher
	Leah - Is'sachar, Zeb'ulun, Dinah
	Rachel - Joseph

God continues to work through all these brokenness - being unloved, hated, trading handmaids, hired the husband with mandrakes
	It is really rare that anyone has a completely clean life where everything is super simple, super clear, super easy.
	Even in those who are used by God to build His kingdom, it's incredibly rare that you would find a person who doesn't have a mess.
	Our lives kind of mirror the lives of these people in the Bible.
	So, our lives are going to mirror the lives of the people at the end of the story where there's glory and there's honour being given to God and where there is holiness.
	It's sometimes okay knowing that ther's some brokenness that God can use.