Genesis 31-32, Job 21-22, Proverbs 3:9-12

Eli'phaz is speaking to Job. He has a common understanding of the role of suffering.
One of the reasons he puts up is that we are reaping what we have sown.
	If we sow sin, we will reap the consequences of sin. This is not an inaccurate comment.
	If we sow in the vineyard of affliction, we will reap God's wrath.
So, Eli'phaz says: What you have to do is to repent.

The things we believe almost always have an element of truth in them. That's one of the reasons why they are so convincing. They are not fully true. But they are patially true.
	One such is the role of suffering: That it is a consequence of our own bad decisions or someone else's bad decisions.
	Sometimes God allows us to enter into suffering in order to wake us up; in order to get us to repent; in order to win.
	He will not necessarily spare our lives/goals/dreams/hopes so we can get our soul. So that we can wake up and realise that we are far from God.
	One of the fruits of suffering can be repentence or it can be someting that God is using to teach us deeper wisdom about life that we could never ever learn outside of suffering.
	This is true but it is not the only truth.

Job did not experience the suffering because he was not guilty. Something else was at play.
	That's one of the reasons why sometimes offering people platitude, like:
		Well, this is God's will. We don't know if it is God's will and we don't know if it His perfect will. It might be His permissible will.
	Offering people platitude like this can often be incredibly dangerous.
	It's one the reasons why the best thing that Job's friends did for him was that when he was in his depth of suffering, they just sat with him for 7 days.
		But, his friends are much like us as friends. Sometimes, we get tired of just being with someone in their grief and we want to talk our way out of it and give them an answer.
		Sometimes there is no answer. Sometimes the answer is something we cannot offer. Sometimes the answer is something that can only come from God Himself.
		We will see that it's what happens in this story of Job.