Exodus 10-11, Leviticus 8, Psalm 50

What are the plagues? Is it God just telling: "Hey, I am very powerful"?
	God is demonstrating that he is the Lord God and above all the false gods. Every one of the 10 plagues is associated with one of the 10 false gods of Egypt.

	Nile turned Blood - There was a false god named Hapy (Egyptian god of Nile). God shows dominance
	Frogs - Heket (Egyptian goddess of fertility, water and renewal) had the head of a frog
	Lice from dust of earth - Geb (Egyptian god of earth)
	Swarm of Flies - Khepri (Egyptian god of creation, movement of the Sun, rebirth). Flies are connected to death.
	Death of Cattle and Livestock - Hathor (Egyptian goddess of Love and Protection) was usually depicted with the head of a cow. 
	Ashes turned to Boils and Sores - Isis (Egyptian Goddess of Medicine and Peace)
	Hail rained down in the form of fire - Nut (Egyptian Goddess of the Sky)
	Locusts sent from the sky - Seth (Egyptian God of Storms and Disorder)
	Three Days of Complete Darkness - Ra (The Sun God)
	Death of the Firstborn - Pharaoh (The Ultimate Power of Egypt)
		It was believed that he was actually the son of Ra himself, manifest in the flesh.

	God is demonstating His dominance over the false gods. He is getting into the hearts of Israelites. They were subsumed by the Egyptian culture.

Pharaoh says: Get out of my sight. Take out your people
Moses says: Let us have sacrifices and burnt offerings. We need to take our cattle. We do not know how God wants us to worship Him.
	Meaning - We are not going to offer him false worship. We are going to offer Him how He desires.
At last supper, Jesus said: Do this all of you in memory of me. This is the blood of the new and eternal covenant. This is how I want you to worship me.

Levi 8: Rite of Ordination
	Book of Leviticus instructs the Levitical priesthood.
	Before the golden calf incident, all people were kingdom priests. If you are the father of the family, you are the priest of the family.
		Even during the passover, the father of the family acted as the priest of the family.
	The Levites were the ones who picked swords and dealt out justice during the golden calf incident. They ordained themselves that day. Then, priests came only from Levites.
	In the new covenant, all these sacrifices prefigure the great sacrifice of Jesus Christ.
	Letter to Hebrews illuminates how God has been preparing His people from the beginning to be able to give Him the worship that He truly deserves.

God wants to free us of our idolatory. He wants to free us so that we can give Him what He has asked us for.