Genesis 49-50, Job 41-42, Psalm 17

In Gen 49, Jacob doesn't bless his first 3 sons. He starts with Judah, his 4th son.
	He gives Judah the blessing: Your fathers sons shall bow down before you. Judah is a lion's whelp. The scepter shall not deart from Judah.
	Basically, Jacob is prophesying that this is how the future unfolds.
	Gen 49:10 - Untill he comes to whom it belongs - Prophecy of coming of Jesus.
	David comes from the tribe of Judah. Jesus is in the line of David.
	The kingdom that he establishes on earth, the kingdom of heaven that Jesus is Christ the king of is prophesyied here.

In Gen 50, after the burial of Jacob, the brothers are concerned that Joseph may hurt them.
	Joseph, hearing their lack of trust in him, that they do not trust his love for them, breaks down and weeps: You meant it for evil but God meant it for good that many will be saved.
	This is what we know about God's permissive will. God's will is over everything.
	There's God's perfect will: Plan A - Things He directly wills.
	Then there's God's permissive will - Things He allows to happen. Not the things He wants to happen.
		Evil - God doesn't want it to happen, but allows it to happen because He wants to preserve our freedom and because He knows that He can bring about a greater good.
	Mystery of Trust - That's what we are called to enter into. Lord, I trust you in all things.
	Even if someone's doing evil to me, You don't want it to happen but You allow it because You know that You can bring about a greater good out of it and not becuse You don't care.

One of the struggles in the Book of Job is that it addresses the problem of evil, but it does not answer the eproblem of evil.
	God doesn't give an answer as to why He allows suffering to happen. He responds with to Job not only with a bunch of questions but He respond to Job with Himself.
	Our theology would reveal to us that it might be to preserve our freedom and because He can bring greater good out of it.
	Job 42:5-6 - I had heard of You beforehand but now I have seen You with my eyes. Therefore now I repent and speak no more.
	The answer to the problem of pain and suffering is God Himself. God has spoken definitively when it comes to sufferng by offering Himself. This is the mystery of Cruxifiction.
	This is the mystery of the Cross. God could give us a reason why. He could tell us: "Here's the story behind everything".
		Or He could say: "I am no stranger to suffering. All that you have experienced, all that has come down on your head, I have also allowed to come down on my head."
	Just like God responded to Job by showing His face, God has responded to all of us by showing the face of Jesus.
		Particularly the broken and rejected, the beaten and the crucified face of Jesus. This is God's answer to the problem of pain. And the answer is Himself.
		That's the secret of the book of Job. God does give an answer. The answer isn't logic, the answer isn't reason, the answer isn't just to have faith. The answer is God Himself.
		And He gives Himself to us today as well.