Exodus 12, Leviticus 9, Psalm 114

Exo 12 - Death of the firstborn
	We read it as a whole. This is in a way not injustice. The Pharaoh killed all Israelite males who were born. Lord God had warned Pharaoh that this is what would happen if you don't repent.
	The people of Egypt had opportunity to repent. Yet they didn't.

We recogonise that the lamb is a type of Jesus Himself.
	St. Paul says that Jesus is our passover lamb.
	St. John the Baptist says: Behold, the lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world.
	St. John the Evangelist makes a point that Jesus was crucified at the same moment when they were slaughtering the passover lamb in the temple.

The lamb is bought into the home before a week (Palm Sunday). As the passover ritual becomes more formalised, it becomes Friday. The lamb dwells in the home of the people of Israel.
	Reason 1: Not all the people of Israel has not been circumcised. This could be an opportunity to be bought into the covenant via circumcision.
		They have to recover. They circumcise when lamb comes to home(beginning of the week). They are healed by the end of the week when they sacrifice the lamb.
		NB. Exo 12:48 - No uncircumcised person shall eat of it.
	Reason 2: As lamb has to become unblemished, they have to care for the lamb. The lamb has value on its own. When it lives with you for a week, it becomes precious to you.
		When you offer it, it is a sign of that gift that actually means something.
	Connect both these with our Mass. Only those who are baptised can partake of the Mass.
	Is Jesus precious to us? Do we put down on the alter that which is precious to us?

They mark their homes, the doorposts and the lentil with the blood of the lamb.
	Exo 12:13 - Passover
	Lambs in Egypt were considered sacred. They have done the sacrifice of lamb publicly. Its like: We can't come back here. Helps them to not come back.
	Some archaeological studies has showed: In Egypt, houses were made of brick(made out of mud), so not strong. But the doorpost and lentil were made out of stone.
		Egyptians believed that one of the things that kept a person living after their death is their name. So, they would inscribe their names on the stone doorposts and lentil. 
		Here they are covering their name with the blood of the lamb. As Christians, here we are, being transformed by the lord on His sacrifice on the cross.
	We recieve the Eucharist and drink the blood of Jesus. It gives us freedom and it gives us life.