Exodus 24, Leviticus 17-18, Psalm 78

Exo 24 - On the mountain of God and the blood of the covenant
	Moses takes the people and offers up a sacrifice, takes half of the blood, threw it against the alter.
	Then the people say: Everything the Lord has said, we will do. Then he splashes the other half of blood on them.
	Through RCIA when people comes to the Church, one of the things they say is: I profess and believe all the Catholic Church professes, believes and proclaims to be revealed by God.
		It is like the actual wedding vows. There are 2 parts: The male who offers himself and the female who recieves and then the female offers herself and the male receives.
		Something similar happens whenever someone becomes Catholic.
	What seals the covenant is the blood of the covenant.
	At every mass, we say: This is the blood of the new and eternal covenant. The blood is there on the alter and then we get to take it and receive it. That establishes, confirms the covenant.
	At every mass, we are participating in the fullness of the covenant.
	We need to know the old testament in order to truly appreciate the new testament.

Levi 18 - Laws regarding sexual morality
	List of sexual relations that may not be engaged in.
	There are some things in the Bible that are temporary. There are some laws of Leviticus that have been surpassed because they were conditional, they were set in time.
	3 kinds of laws:
		1. Things like rules regarding you being distinct from other peoples. Establishing community for Israel.
		2. Rules when it comes to worship. Temple rules
		3. Rules that are across the board, always and everywhere wrong - Morality for always
	Some people may say: How come you have to follow these particular rules from the Bible but you don't follow all of them?
		There is a lack of understanding that there are 3 kinds of laws throughout the old testament - particularly in Exodus, Deuteronomy and Leviticus
		We don't do all of them now. Because the people of Israel doesn't exist anymore and because the temple has ceased to exist.
		But the 3rd kinds of laws, those concerning morality are still in effect as they were not conditional (not merely for Israel. They were for everyone)
	How do we know that these laws of sexual morality are the kinds that didn't just pass away with the people of Israel? That they didn't just pass with the temple.
		We know this because it is spelled out in Levi 18:24 - Do not defile yourself by any of these things for by all these the nations that I am casting out before you had defiled themselves.
		This makes it absolutely clear that those laws concerning sexual relations are not merely for Israel.
		God clearly says: Other nations did this and that was an abomination to me. Those things were abominable, they were perversions, they were wrong, they were evil.
		That's how we know clearly that these things weren't conditional laws. But that those laws were universal, absolute commandment.