Genesis 7-9, Psalm 1

The story of Rainbow is well known. There is something very powerful about that rainbow, the archer's bow that is not going to be used for war,
	not going to be used for destruction or death. Here, God is setting down his bow and saying that "I will never again destroy the earth by flood."
	Here, we see God making peace by making a covenant with Noah and his family.

Couple of things change after this. God makes it incredibly clear.
	Gen 8:21 - The Lord smelled the offering and says that He will never again curse the ground because of man and that He will never again destroy every living creature.
		We have the sacrifice of Noah and the responsive God .
	Gen 9:3 - You can eat of the animals now (permission granted).
	Gen 9:6 - Clear prohibition against murder.
		"The covenant b/w God and mankind is interwoven with reminders of God's gift of human life and man's murderous violence." (CCC 2260)

One of the things we recogonise is that the story of Noah points out the fact that human beings, in our hearts, are broken.
	Gen 3 - Story of the Fall
	Gen 4 - With Cain and Abel
	What we should do is to bring those desires(murderous) of human heart under God's dominance.

CCC 2416: Animals are God's creatures. He surrounds them with His providential care. By their mere existence they bless Him and give Him glory.
	Thus men owe them kindness.
CCC 2417: God entrusted animals to the stewardship of those whom He created in his own image. Hence it is legitimate to use them food and clothing.
	They may be domesticated to help man in his work and leisure. Medical and scientific experimentation on animals is a morally acceptable practice if it remains within resonable
	limits and limits and contributes to caring for or saving human lives.
CCC 2418: It is contrary to human dignity to cause animals to suffer or die needlessly. It is unlikely otherwise to spend money on them that should as a priority go to
	the relief of human misery. One can love animals; one should not direct to them the affection due only to persons.

Story of Shem, Ham and Japheth:
	It is believed by many scripture scholars that "seeing their father's nakedness" is an idiomatic expression for essentially laying with their father's wife.
	That would typically, in this context, not simply be an act of lust but an act of trying to dominate(humiliate/emasculate) his own father.
	And here we see the break of families.

The dignity that we have as human beings in God's image and likeness only seems to accent the murderous intent of our hearts(our wilingness to do evil at times).

Prayer: I place myself under your dominion because I know that even though I am in your image and likeness, I am broken in my heart.
	So, I need your grace. I ask for your grace. I beg for your grace.