Exodus 19-20, Leviticus 13, Psalm 74

Here God reveals Himself to His people on Mount Sinai.
	He not only reveals Himself, He desires enters into a covenant with them: I will be your God and you will be My people.
	A covenant is different from a contract.
		Contract - an exchange of goods or services based off of a condition
			I will do this for you, if you do that for me. If you don't do that for me, I don't need to do this for you.
		Covenant - an exchange of persons unconditionally.
			I desire to be yours and I desire you to be mine. There is that "gift of self".
	God made covenant with Abraham and God deepens His covenant and expands His covenant untill we get to the new and eternal covenant.
		In the new and eternal covenant, Jesus says: This is the covenant of my blood, the new and eternal covenant.
		Where Jesus gives Himself to us, body, blood, soul, divinity. He is making a gift of Himself and when we receive Holy communion we are making a gift of ourselves back to Him.
	Marriage is a covenant.

God reveals His commandments.
	If were just to find out that the Lord God had commandments without a covenant, it would be rules without a relationship.
		It would be like: Do these things because if you don't do these things, you are breaking the law.
	God established covenant prior to commandments. God is establishing relationship prior to rules. God is wise.
	When we learn about God, we first learn about the rules. But the way God taught His people was: Here's who I am. My desire is to make a covenant with you. Now comes the commandments.
		God establishes the relationship. And He tells: Life in a relationship has some rules.
		These are the rules that will give life to the relationship, that will preserve the relationship. that will grow and deepen the relationship. And that's when He gives us the commandments.
		And those commandments and those rules serve to strengthen the covenant, they serve to strengthen the relationship. That's why we need to know them.
		That's why we need to do everything we can to say "Yes" to the Lord in the midst of this world.